You should place every crud operation inside the repository class.
Crud is any operation that creates, retrieves updates or deletes data from a data store.
Every CRUD operation should be inside the repository class.
In this lesson, you're going to move every crud operation from the controller to the repository.
Step one of the process is that the controller, service and repository should be in separate folders.
This is going to be your first step when dividing your code base into three layers.
In step two, only the repository can access the data store.
And then step three, you need to move every crud operation from the controller to the repository.
The controller class is only concern should be managing the model and presenting the view.
Any operation that involves creating, retrieving, updating or deleting data from the data store should
happen inside repository.
Step one is to create a repository class and a service class and then place each one in a separate folder.
So create a new folder called Controller.
And put the controller class inside.
We're going to move it.
And if you're using VS code, make sure to press okay on refactoring changes.
That way it performs all of the necessary imports for you so that you don't have to do it yourself.
Okay.
Now create a new folder called Repository.
And inside create a class called grade repository.
Dot Java.
And now create a new folder called Service.
And inside create a class called Grade Service Java.
Now, step two is that only the repository can access the data store.
In our case, the data store is an array list and we need to remove it from the controller and place
it inside the repository class.
Perform the necessary imports.
Remove this extra brackets and now make the ArrayList private so that no other class can access it.
The controller class needs to get its data from grid repository.
So inside the controller class, we need to create a new instance of grade repo.
Grade repo.
Grade repo is equal to a new instance of grade repository.
All right.
Now step three is to move every CRUD operation from controller to repository.
Remember that only the repository is allowed to create, retrieve, update or delete data from the data
store.
You need to remove all CRUD operations from the controller class.
The grade form method attempts to retrieve an object at a certain index.
This is the are in crud and all crud operations made against the data store should be inside repository.
So inside grade repository create a method that receives an index and returns an object.
Public grade.
Get grade that receives an index.
And it's going to return the object at that index, return student grades, get the object at the index
that gets passed in.
And now the service class should be the middleman between controller and repository.
But for now, forget about the service class.
We're going to make direct calls from the controller to the repository.
So here we'll say.
Great repository.
Dot get grade at the index that we need.
And now if we go down, the submit method tries to add an object to the data store.
This represents the create operation in CRUD.
So inside the repository class we're going to create a method public void add grade that receives an
object grade grade and add it to the data store grades.
Or I should say student grades dot add the grade that gets passed in.
If you took my Java course, you might be wondering, shouldn't I add a copy of the grade object?
Well, typically in a real life scenario, you would not be using an array list to store your data.
You'd be using an actual database.
So I wouldn't worry too much about that right now.
Anyways, not important.
Go back here and call.
Great repository.
Dot ad grade.
The Submit method also tries to update an object inside the data store.
This represents the update operation in CRUD.
So inside repository create a new method called update grade.
That receives a great object.
As well as an index.
And it's going to update the array list with a grade at a particular index.
Okay.
And now here we can just say great repository, dot update grade.
Also tries to retrieve every great object from the data store.
This represents the retrieve operation in CRUD, also known as the read operation so inside repository.
We're going to create another method that returns every single great object.
The entire list will call it get grades.
And it will simply return the student grades.
And now back here call great repository dot get grades.
And inside of get grade index.
The last step is to rerun your code to make sure that everything still works.
All right, we'll say local host, 80.
80.
We will submit a grade.
Harry.
A minus potions.
We will try to update that student's grade.
We'll give them a C minus.
We'll give them an invalid grade.
All right.
Everything still works.
Refactoring your code obviously does not change any of its logic, but it does make your code a lot
cleaner and easier to scale.
So to recap, you moved related operations to the repository class.
The repository represents the data access layer only.
It has access to the data store.
Also only it is allowed to create, retrieve, update or delete data from the data store.
That's why we moved every CRUD operation from the controller to the repository.